Qualifications
Required Qualifications:

Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or related technical field AND 2+ years technical engineering experience with coding in languages including, but not limited to, C++, C#, or Java 
OR equivalent experience. 
2+ years of full software development life cycle, including coding standards & best practices, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations, experience for distributed web applications 
2+ years of contributing to new and/or current systems technical architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) experience 
2+ years of experience in front-end web development (HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Usability Testing) and modern front-end frameworks; such as: React or Vue or Angular
Other Requirements: 

Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security screening requirements are required for this role. These requirements include, but are not limited to the following specialized security screenings: 

Microsoft Cloud Background Check: This position will be required to pass the Microsoft Cloud background check upon hire/transfer and every two years thereafter.
Preferred Qualifications: 

Development experience, C++ or C# or Java. 
Proficiency in JavaScript/TypeScript. 
 Experience with one or more cloud platforms (e.g., Azure, AWS, etc.) 
 Experience creating, developing, delivering, deploying, maintaining online services 
 Developing features and experiences for large-scale, cross-browser applications across both mobile and desktop.  
 Working knowledge of building rich multimedia experiences on web. 
Experience building and shipping distributed web services  


Overview
Are you a customer-obsessed, AI-curious problem-solver who thrives in an inclusive, collaborative global team? The Azure CXP team’s mission is to transform Microsoft Cloud customers into fans. Through our deep engineering engagements with customers and teams across Microsoft, we analyze and amplify customer needs and drive the vision to improve Cloud quality, security, and reliability. Our culture of growth mindset and empowerment are central to who we are and how we work.
 
The focus of our Azure CXP Engineering is to build extensible platforms, connected customer experiences (CX), enable digital transformation, and improve customer outcomes. Our top-level objectives include winning customer satisfaction by providing the help they need and reducing customer challenges. Our team believes in living the core Microsoft values of Respect, Integrity and Accountability.
We are looking for a Software Engineer II with a passion for delivering well-designed, scalable, and reliable software for large-scale projects. As part of this role, you will collaborate closely with multiple teams to deliver key customer solutions and the technology to support them.
 
As the scale of Microsoft services continues to grow, keeping the infrastructure and cloud services running at massive scale requires non-trivial effort. Automation is the only sustainable way to do this. Hundreds of Microsoft engineers and teams use our service to automate diagnosis, root causing and remediation of live site issues. Our service eliminates manual toil, improves productivity, reduces mean time to resolve (MTTR), and helps engineers sleep at night.
 
Every day, our customers stake their business and reputation on our cloud. You can help Azure CXP team provide our customers with the world-class cloud services they need to succeed.
 
Microsoft's mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.
 
Relocation assistance is unavailable for this role.


Responsibilities
 
Our team is looking for a seasoned Software Engineer II who will help shape extensible UX platform to empower engineers across Microsoft by simplifying authoring capabilities and surfacing new AI powered experiences. The candidate will influence architectural and design decisions.  They will be responsible for collaborating with cross functional teams to deliver modern, performant, scalable solutions that will go through the full engineering lifecycle, starting from initial research and prototyping to end-to-end delivery. Your contributions will span system design, quality, scalability & performance optimizations, and monitoring & telemetry, culminating in successful service rollout and ongoing live site support.  
The committed candidate will have a dedicated background in building rich user experiences and a passion for creating intuitive and engaging digital products. 
On our team, we strive to build lasting relationships, and we make each other better by supporting, mentoring, and empathizing. We believe that diversity and empathy are key to building great teams and crafting visionary products with global appeal. We value variety in perspectives and backgrounds and work together to create an inclusive environment that supports this 
In alignment with our Microsoft values, we are committed to cultivating an inclusive work environment for all employees to positively impact our culture every day.